What is generally the size of a tour group ?
Generally the number of guest traveling varies depending on the destination. The average group size for World Tour is between 40 to 47 and Indian tour is between 28 to 56. However, if a particular tour gets an overwhelming response or if it is a special tour like My Fair Lady or Second Innings tour then the group size may go beyond the aforesaid group size.

Who would be my co-travelers ?
Your co-travelers can be any individual, right from a professional C.A or Doctor to a teacher, a teenager, an artist, a politician, businessman, people of any religion, from any region, any language etc. When you return from your dream holiday, we assure you that there will be additions to your friends list.

Will it be possible to extend my stay at a destination ?
You can extend your stay provided you intimate us of such extension at the time of your booking. Additional charges will be applicable. No extensions/alterations can be done when the tour is in progress.

Can I avail just a part of the tour?
It is not advisable to do tours partly as you wont be able to experience your dream destinations completely. Tejas Tours and Travels offers you a wide range of products that suit your requirements. Our travel consultants will guide you on the same.

Is the tour itinerary susceptible to last minute changes, as we need to plan our leaves & make necessary arrangements accordingly?
We do not change the itinerary nor date of the tour, however in case of force majeure events, circumstances force us to change the routing or date of the tour, as the case may be, just for your safety.

Can I incorporate any changes in my travel plan once the booking is done?
Yes, you can modify your booking or travel plan. There may be certain charges for modifications or for cancelling the old booking and making new arrangements. The travel consultants at our offices will assist you for the same.

Is there any refund against cancellation?
Cancellation of tour will attract certain cancellation charges. The travel consultant will give you the details about such cancellation at the time of booking or for more information on cancellation charges.

What are my options in the event that a tour receives less response ?
Generally, we operate all the tours that we launch, however in some cases the total number of bookings fall below our prescribed minimum operating capacity, in such cases we give you options and then accommodate or merge your tour with other available tours. You may also opt for our customized packages in such cases, but the services like group games, group activities, meals, tour leader etc may or may not be provided.

Do you provide Leave Travel Certificate?
We do provide the leave travel certificate, subject to your intimation to us about your requirement at the time of booking the tour itself.

If I misplace my passport, what assistance will I be provided ?
Ideally only 1 Tour Leader is assigned to manage the group & since he has to follow the itinerary, the group may have to move ahead to the next destination while you may have to stay back at your current location - additional services will be on chargeable basis! Either we may be able to provide you with assistance - subject to availability & on chargeable basis only - who'll assist you with all the required & necessary formalities like lodging a complaint / FIR at the nearest police station & securing a Landing Certificate from the Indian Embassy of the respective international destination.

What is an e-ticket?
An e-ticket is a paperless electronic document with a unique confirmation number that neatly replaces the hassles of a paper ticket. You may request for a copy to be sent to your e-mail id, in-case of International tours - if & when you require e-tickets for buying Forex, for VISA formalities. For outstation guests who have booked Domestic tours & may arrive at the airport before the scheduled time, we may issue an e-ticket copy if requested for - on a case to case basis, under such circumstances, you are requested to not make any changes in it at the airport as it is a group PNR & any changes may create problem for the entire group!

What does the World Tour price include ?
The World Tour price generally is inclusive of your travel arrangements, accommodation, all meals, sightseeing, entrance charges, VISA, airport taxes, Tour Leader services, etc. For more information on inclusion of tour price kindly refer tour inclusion section on the respective tour itinerary page on our website.

What does the Indian tour price include ?
The Indian tour price generally is inclusive of your accommodation, all meals, sightseeing, entrance charges, Tour Leader services,etc. but does not include your to and fro journey tickets. However we do have airport to airport tours which is all inclusive tours by Air. For more information on inclusion of tour price kindly refer tour inclusion section on the respective tour itinerary page on our website.

Can I avail any early booking benefit ?
Yes, you get an advance booking discount for all tours on paying full registration amount at the time of booking. Discounts are slab wise and are given on first cum first serve basis. They are valid for limited seats, limited period, limited tours and vary depending on the tour and region, so book early and save thousands. Tejas Tours and Travels also offers full payment discount if you pay the entire tour price 60 - 300 days prior to the tour departure.

What benefits can Repeat Travelers and Senior Citizens expect ?
Tejas Tours and Travels does have repeat guest and senior citizen discounts and it varies as per the tour. The travel consultant will provide the details when you book the tour.

What are the benefits of group bookings?
Yes, you are eligible for group discount if you book for a group of more than 8 guests on the same day.

Is there any age criteria for discounts? Do children also get discount?
Discounts are applicable for all guests who are or above 2 years of age for both World Tours & Indian tours.

What is the difference between Child and Infant?
Infant is any guest who is below 2 years of age whereas child is guest who is or above 2 years of age and below 12 years of age.

Is there any specific reason, why there is a remarkable difference in the price for an Infant & a Child for the World Tours?
Airlines have different airfares both infant and child as per their defined age category. For infant, airfare is 10% of the adult airfare whereas for child, it is 75% of adult fare or at times child fare may be the same as adult fare. For child above 2 years we also provide separate coach seats for the entire tour.

Why is the World Tour price quoted in Indian Rupees as well as in Foreign currency?
This is because we incur expenses of the tour in two currencies. Your air tickets, visa, documentation, some part of land arrangements and miscellaneous expenses are done in Indian currency whereas your land arrangements like hotel booking, meals, coach, sightseeing, entrance tickets etc. are done in foreign currency.

What are the modes of travel on tour?
The modes of travel depend upon the tour which you book. Generally, we travel by Flight, Coach, Train, Cruise, Speed boat, Jet Foil, Cable Car, etc. as mentioned in the itinerary. For more information refer respective tour itinerary page on the website.

Are there any night journeys on tour?
For flights we may have night journeys, but we normally avoid night journeys on tour as far as possible.

How hectic is the pace of the tours?
We have a wide range of products which are designed as leisurely paced to medium paced to fast. Most of the tours are medium to fast pace as we cover maximum must see sight-seeings, we do not have optional sight-seeings.

Do we have to walk a lot on tours?
Generally, we have to walk at sightseeing places, amusement parks and at the airports sometimes for a long distance, however the same will be timely instructed by the Tour Leader.

Do we have to wake up early on tours?
Unless otherwise specified by the Tour Leader for World Tour, we normally follow 6-7-8 schedule i.e wake up at 6 am, breakfast at 7 am and departure at 8 am and for Indian tour its 7-8-9 schedule i.e. wake up at 7 am, breakfast at 8 am and departure at 9 am. However, the schedule may change as per the situation.

Do we get wake-up calls on tours?
Yes, you do get telephonic wake up call through the hotel automated system, however it is advisable to have your mobile alarms set to be on the safer side.

What if I reach late and miss a part of the tour?
Punctuality is of utmost importance when traveling in group. We do not want you to miss any part of the tour so please be on time and always follow the Tour Leader's instructions. In case, you miss any part of the tour, we are not responsible/liable and no refund shall be given to you in this regard.

What assistance is provided to a disabled person or a senior citizen, who needs special assistance on tour?
A qualified companion must accompany the guest who needs such special assistance as individual assistance cannot be given to such guest by the Tour Leader considering he has to manage the entire group.

Can I take a wheelchair on tour? Will it be difficult while visiting places?
Yes, you can bring your own wheel chair and move at most of the sightseeing places but a qualified companion must accompany guest who are traveling on wheelchair.

Will I get drinking water during sight-seeing?
In most of the countries tap water is considered very safe and widely available. In-case, it is not so and wherever Tejas Tours and Travels provides the same is mentioned in the respective tour itinerary page on the website.

Will I get some time for my-self on the tour?
Group Tour Itineraries are designed and planned in such a way that you should get to see maximum places, so you will get time only when you are back at the hotel. However, if you wish to skip any sightseeing, then you have to inform the Tour Leader accordingly, but you shall not get any refund for such services which you have not availed at your own discretion.

At a particular destination, can my relative join me on the tour?
Yes, your relative is always welcome. S/he can join us on tour subject to your intimation to us at the time of your booking and payment of prescribed charges to make him / her eligible to join our tour and avail our services on tour.

Will Tejas Tours and Travels recommend me where to shop on a tour ?
Our Tour Leader will provide information about the shopping areas on tour, however s/he will not suggest/recommend / promote any particular shop, area etc. to you.

Can I use my credit card for shopping / personal expense while on an International tour?
Yes, you can use Internationally accepted Credit Cards for shopping and personal expenses but kindly cross check with your Bank before effecting any transaction. We are not responsible/liable for any loss, fraud, damage, cheating etc., if any, occurs in such cases.

How can I stay in touch with my family and friends on a World Tour?
While on tour, you can be in touch with your family and friends through a local calling card or local sim card as you may deem fit and desirable. You have to carry your mobile handset. We are not responsible for any charges levied by the international local authorities neither shall be responsible for loss of your mobile handset.

What assistance is provided, if I dis-continue the scheduled tour, on account of illness?
If you fall sick on tour, kindly inform the Tour Leader immediately. The Tour Leader will assist you in making all arrangements for the medical aid, doctor on call etc. However, the expenses will have to be borne by you. Here, Insurance plays a major role hence we highly recommend that you should get yourself and your family insured adequately before travel.

Can I get medicine on a World Tour?
We highly recommend you to carry sufficient medicines along with you on tour. While packing, distribute them evenly in different bags to ensure that you have some medicine with you incase there is any delay in getting baggage or loss. However you do get medicines on tour but your doctors prescription for the same is a must.

How many days prior to the tour should I do the booking?
We recommend you to book your tour at least 9 months prior to the scheduled departure date as most of our tours fill up 6 months in advance. For Indian tours, railway booking opens 120 days prior to the departure date. However, if you book early you can avail of the advance booking discounts, priority in the coach etc.

How can I book a tour?
You can book your tour at any of the Tejas Tours and Travels offices or Tejas Tours and Travels's Preferred Sales Agents or Tejas Tours and Travels Franchisee. Refer to our world showcase for the listing of our offices and Preferred sales agents and Franchisee. If guests are residing out of India, they can book their tour online.

What are the documents required to book a tour?
To book a World Tour, you need passport with 6 months validity subsequent to the scheduled departure date of the tour and with sufficient number of blank pages for visa purposes. You also need to pay a registration amount depending on the tour price. Where as for Indian Tours identification proof and registration amount is required for detailed information on the booking procedure click here.

Do I need to pay the entire tour price lump-sum while booking?
If you pay the tour price at one go 60 days prior departure then you are benefited as you get full payment discount. It is not mandatory though, you can pay the registration amount to book and pay the balance payment later.

If I am an NRI, can I book your regular Indian tour?
Yes NRI's can book any of Tejas Tours and Travels's Indian Tours. We have separate NRI tour price in USD for all Indian tours. Kindly refer the Tour Price section of respective tour itinerary page on the website.

Can my son/daughter residing abroad sponsor my tour by paying in their currency? If yes, then how?
Yes, they can pay the same by Telegraphic Wire transfer but only in USD, Euro and AUD currency. Any transaction charges levied by the bank will be borne by you / your son / daughter. click here

How can I check my payment and billing details?
You can check your billing and tour related information online, for the sameclick here. Then, type your log in ID which is your tour code and form number and the password is printed on your payment receipt.

Prior to tour departure is there any information provided?
We do give pre-departure information sheet once you book a tour which consists information about the destination, things to carry, weather, shopping etc. It is also available on the website under post booking information

Do we get any confirmation call of our scheduled departure?
Yes, 2 to 3 days prior to your scheduled departure we give a call to inform the reporting time and place.

Once we are on tour, are our relatives informed about our safety?
Once you reach the first destination, we intimate your relatives through an SMS on the number that have been provided by you while booking the tour. Also, we provide 2 sets of hotel list so that one copy is kept with your relatives and they can contact you at the hotel directly.

In case of emergency whom can I contact?
During emergency, you may call on the below mentioned Tejas Tours and Travels's Emergency numbers:- Domestic Tours including Nepal & Bhutan :- 9821007573; South East Asia Tours including Island nations :- 9821007563 & Europe and other World Tours :- 9999999999.